Like with any small business setting your target market is imperative in helping you find and locate
the right clients for your services that you offer.
Now that we developed our goals and we really worked on detailing the services will offer as a freelancer
let's figure out what types of clients and what industries we'll need to market to if I'm a web developer
and I create mostly custom coded solutions and coding for custom apps.
I may want to think about focusing in on larger companies are medium sized regional businesses.
As the demand for custom coded solutions are higher and those with larger budgets small businesses and
clients may not be able to afford a custom coded solution or app another example if you're an illustrator
who specializes in specific watercolor illustrations I may want to target clients without a business
and maybe target individuals who desire to have an illustration created or made.
Same thing goes for photographers for example.
Think about what type of photography you like doing best and find your target market based on the demand
for that type of photography wedding photography will most likely be an end consumer or individuals
and families.
Product photography will most likely be hired by ad agencies or larger corporations knowing your target
market early on will help us when crafting our portfolios and Web sites and will help guide our design
and layout decisions even how we write our sales language on our landing page and how we write our social
media accounts.
This can also affect how we do our paid marketing.
If you decide to go that route as well.
First of all let's figure out what your target market will be.
Mom and Pop businesses a large company or anything in between.
Let's say you're a graphic designer who has logo design and branding and their services list can have
the potential of both smaller or larger size clients businesses or even individuals wanting logo work
done.
When first starting your target market it could be larger and as you find your client base you'll slowly
be able to hone in more on your target market there's a few questions you can ask yourself that'll help
you narrow this down further.
What type of client would need my particular creative style.
If I have a high end clean flat design style or illustration style or photography style perhaps targeting
clients in a luxury retail high end real estate space might be helpful ask yourself where is their demand
for my services.
Are there particular industries needing my service more than others retail shops are always needing
logo and branding work.
Also freelancers as well perhaps as a way to fine tune my target market by exploring demand.
And this is where a little detective work pays off.
You could check out trending photography stock photo sites to see if you can pick up more popular styles
and demands from people interested in needing photography or stock photos.
Depends on your industry and what services you offer what types of Web sites you think you can go to
do that detective work what type of budget do you need to hire me for a project or service if I'm a
web developer.
Perhaps you'll need a minimum of two thousand dollars to even start a project with me that could help
you narrow down your target audience simply because some types of clients may not be able to afford
a Web site of that pricing so small mom and pop local businesses for example may not be your target
market.
There are several ways to break down a target market or demographic.
I'm going to go over some of them right now.
Demographics can be broken down by age.
Perhaps I'll want to target 20 to 40 somethings if I offer wedding photography services.
If I offer custom T-shirt illustrations I may want to target the younger ages.
There is a breakdown by income.
Once again budget plays a factor in this demographic.
Some individuals clients or companies may have smaller budgets or income levels and others and we'll
touch on this a bit more when we get to the pricing section of this course there's a breakdown by location.
Some of the guys want to have a worldwide client base while others like those in the painting world
find it hard to ship larger finished products to clients who are overseas.
Also working with clients in other countries can be more challenging in some industries than others.
Web design is one of those services that seem to be more immune to this challenge.
You also want to figure out if you want to target local clients at first or national sometime starting
with a local target market can make marketing and networking a lot easier.
Some local markets may not support your services though because of income or budgets in your nearby
town.
Demographics can talk about client size and figuring out the size of your clients companies or businesses
could be a big help in crafting your target market.
Your client may be individuals families small local businesses regional businesses or even larger national
corporations.
Finding out the size of your desired client will also help you personally.
Individuals and smaller companies are more compassionate with deadlines and larger corporations can
pay a lot more.
But be a little less forgiving of schedule changes.
This can also be helpful to know if you decide to do paid targeted marketing campaigns and we'll talk
about that a lot a bit later in the course when we get to marketing.
You can also break up your target market by interests likes and dislikes.
This goes back to matching with an industry that may demand your style.
We all offer certain styles and are creative services and try to find ways to find target demographics
that may desire or have a demand for unique your unique style or have a demand for the style you want
to have a particular skill set in.
There there's a break down by gender with your potential clients most likely be male female.
Certain industries and styles may be overwhelmingly targeting one over the other so you can check out
your competition.
Another way to fine tune your target market is to study that competition and you may notice their client
list on their portfolio seems to be targeting a particular industry.
Also add them to your social media feeds they can constantly see what they're up to and how they're
crafting their marketing pay campaigns for their clients.
So you get some great ideas for profits are nonprofits finding out whether your target market will focus
on nonprofits or for profit companies.
Helpful.
Certain services favor one over the other.
For example illustrations or mural or maybe more demand for nonprofits in the area.
Feel free to download the target market worksheet and see if you can come up with your basic target
market for your freelance business.
This of course can shift and change as you find new clients and slowly build up our business.